Welcome to Incident
Response Demo:
Part 3 brought to you by IBM.
[inaudible] here is older,
going to go ahead and
take a look at it.
It also has a pretty
high severity
even though the
credibility is low.
So the first thing
I notice here is
the event name, file infected,
no cleaner available,
OAS is denied access
to the command.
On the Summary page as
you can see here there's
a file was infected and
there's no cleaner available.
Therefore, check the events.
It looks like a virus was
detected on this machine.
You have the source IP, and
then we can also find
the file name in here.
We found the file,
and it looks like it's
actually triggering
on a file that is
in the recycle bin.
[inaudible] copied that out
[inaudible] starting 0 response,
scurry down the time,
you've some detailed notes.
Once I've identified the
system, identify the file,
when he got in contact and
our team again get that
switchboard disabled.
Once I submitted that ticket to
the network team to
have the port disabled,
I'm going to go ahead
and look back on
my list of individuals
to contact,
that we created in step one,
events and their response,
where we prepared the
shareholders list
in the event of an attack.
Once I contact them,
I am going to go
over and kick off
my AVScan and wait
for the results.
So once I kick off
my AVScan and we're
going to go ahead and
fill out the rest
in the response form at anyone
notes in here that I have.
Once I've completed the
AVScan, I come back.
The file wasn't removed,
it's still there.
it also detected a
few other files.
I'm going to recommend that this
is the mirror image as well.
So we suddenly IAM
and those wacky tells
us how you're going
to go ahead and
re-image it with apple.
Finally, we want to go ahead and
do an after-action report,
and an after-action report
can be just are running.
Add document, but keep a list of
mistakes or efficiencies that
that happened during
answer response.
The first incident that we
completed for the DNS query,
I looked at the events
and then I went and
what that DNS query to
see if it was malicious,
and then I had to go
back to the events to
see if it was
actually successful.
So something I could
have done to improve
my efficiency is when I
looked at the events,
I could have ensured that it
was successful before
I even looked it up,
if the DNS would have been
bought by a DNS server,
then I would've wasted the
time go and look up that IP.
Another thing that I didn't
do in the first one was,
I didn't know any
of my shareholders
until anyone that I was going
through that center response.
Then in the second one,
which was for the DOS attack,
there was a lot of events there,
I didn't look to see
if there was maybe
multiple source
addresses or maybe it
wasn't even the developers
that were logged in,
somebody else, but I
didn't do a full
investigation there,
and definitely something that
might have wanted to look
a little further into,
[inaudible] after action
review, it's for you to learn,
it's important to
do because it can
improve your response
time drastically.
Just walk through the insulin
response process one more
time and make sure I hit
on the important details.
So that one is preparation.
you want to know what
you're looking for,
what assets you're monitoring?
Events that you are
going to trigger on
and start down that
incident response path,
as well as the people to contact
in the case of an incident.
Subdue [inaudible] and
responsive detection and
analysis and similar
response detection and
analysis begins with
getting the word
and then beginning to
gather information
and research the events
that had triggered
the alert and
determining if it is
a relevant or if it's
a false positive,
as well as determining how
large is this incident,
stuff or events
that are responses,
containment, eradication,
and recovery.
For the first one, the
containment portion
is to disconnect it
from the network.
If it's a workstation,
it's easy to walk over and
pull the cable out of all.
If it's something
like a server or VM,
you have to contact that team
that's responsible for
those network connections.
The two incidents that we
wrote up the report for,
we did the same lit
using the network team,
typically that's
the quickest way.
You don't know where that
workstation ends or,
it's across the
building or something.
Then after you contain it,
you want to eradicate it.
I'm sure you'll look
for other threats,
make sure that file
is not in place
on the share and it's being
copied all over the place,
and then make sure that system
is not communicating over
other systems more
than it normally does
or on a different board
then it normally does.
Then the last step is recovery.
So you'll want to get the
system back to in state.
Typically approval asked me,
you'll learn from the Manager
to allow that says the
MAC on the network
or give direction and say
[inaudible] in our case,
both of the incidence needed
the system re-imaged.
Last but not least,
the post incident activity,
part of incident
response system four.
So in the after action report,
by end notes and earlier,
just want to add any
mistakes in there,
anything that you can do
better than the thing that
will make your response time more
efficient. Thanks for watching.